people keep asking me how I'm so strong
without actually looking like I'm strong
well it's simple in order to look strong
you need big muscles and in order to get
big muscles you need to take each one
close to
failure very often I almost never do
that because my goals are entirely
different than most bodybuilders but
that's probably pretty obvious it's kind
of hard to explain because building
strength makes building muscle much
easier and building muscle makes
building strength much easier but they
are separate qualities
this systematic review and meta analysis
found that you gain the most amount of
strength when you're trained with really
heavy weight heavy meaning you literally
fail in under six reps so if you have a
hard time just getting three reps in
then the weight is really heavy and
you're bound to get stronger because of
it and the crazy thing is is it doesn't
really matter how much you do per
workout one or two sets is going to have
a very similar effect to three to even
five sets which is crazy anything more
than that is probably junk volume if
your goal is strength meaning you're
doing a whole lot of extra work with no
extra benefit or
reward but muscle growth AKA hypertrophy
is a little different the reason I look
like a Dorito from the back but have
some pretty small arms is because I
don't train like a bodybuilder would
volume is King for building muscle which
literally just means more sets and more
reps a strength focused workout routine
is going to hit a muscle group hard
between three and six sets a week which
is what I do but rarely with weights and
with very strange exercises a
hypertrophy Focus routine is going to
hit a muscle group 10 or even more times
and apparently muscle grows no matter
what weight you use as long as it's
heavy enough that you hit failure before
it becomes cardio and you still have to
do it 10 times a week so it can be
really heavy or relatively light the
literature says that anywhere between 6
to even 30 plus reps can be used to
build muscle as long as as close to
failure the only muscle specific
exercise I've ever really done that with
is pull-ups which definitely train your
lats which is why they are a little bit
bigger in comparison to the rest of my
body all the other exercises I do are
either flexibility related or are very
very difficult and I can't really do
them for more than a few reps oh I
almost fell I do this cuz I train more
for abilities rather than train for
Aesthetics I haven't really seen anybody
train the way that I do probably cuz
it's pretty masochistic I basically hold
positions that are borderline painful
for time and do exercise exes that are
difficult enough that I can't do very
many reps I'm definitely not a
bodybuilder and I'm definitely not a
powerlifter I treat my stretching like a
bodybuilder treats training which is to
say lots of sets and lots of reps or in
this case seconds held and I treat
calisthenics which is body weight
training like a powerlifter which means
low sets Low Reps but a very high
intensity so pound for pound I'm
probably stronger than the average
person and I'm definitely more flexible
do me a favor and don't be that one
person that bashes on one way of
training or another my way of training
would probably not be best if you wanted
to be a professional bodybuilder and you
don't need amazing shoulder Mobility to
have an amazing life we all have
different goals what's optimal for you
might not be optimal for me if you want
to be big get big if you want to be
strong get strong if you want to be
flexible I have free ebooks just for you
and follow my Instagram if you want to
know when a full program drops from me
oh and if your hinges are Rusty get
flexi joints stay flexy